[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
The world we perceive
is but a fraction of the
reality surrounding us.
But there are some
people who can
tap into various of the
normally unseen worlds
and bring its wisdom back to us.
One such person is
Tanis Helliwell,
who's been tapping into
the world of elementals
for more than three decades.
She developed a relationship
with a leprechaun
in particular who was the
spokesperson for his realm.
His name is Lloyd.
And from what I hear,
he's with us right now.
He just chose to show up, right?
>>TANIS HELLIWELL: He did.
And what the
audience doesn't know
is that we had to do
this introduction three
times because he kept
mucking with you.
>>REGINA: He kept mucking.
My tongue kept getting tied.
Tanis, I'm so happy
to see you here.
We've only met virtually via
Zoom over the last few years
and we've developed
a friendship.
And I just love your work, and
people find it so intriguing,
and initially, even
kind of playful.
It's not scary.
Right?
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's
start at the beginning.
Let's start with
what became the book,
which is the foundational
piece called a "Summer with
the Leprechaun."
Tell us where you were in
your life, where you went,
and how this
relationship developed
before he brought his whole
family and everybody else in.
>>HELLIWELL: I went
on retreat to Ireland
to become enlightened.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: Well, you
can imagine how that went.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>HELLIWELL: And so I rented
a cottage site on scene,
and it ended up being
haunted by the leprechauns,
the whole family, in fact.
And the next day, I
went down to the village
and they said you're
a holidaymaker.
And I said, well, actually,
I've rented the Douglas Cottage.
And they said, the
Douglas Cottage?
Oh, did you not
know it's haunted?
Oh, by what?
I said.
Oh, by the little people.
You're on a whole haunted lane.
[BOTH CHUCKLING]
So that is what
happened to me and--
>>REGINA: But wait a
minute, didn't Lloyd
show himself to you,
and then afterward, you
found out when you went into
town that it was haunted?
He'd already shown up?
>>HELLIWELL: He had.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLIWELL: He'd shown
up with the whole family.
And I was just-- tried
to postpone belief--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLIWELL: --and
hope this was not--
>>REGINA: This wasn't part of
your enlightenment package.
>>HELLIWELL: This was
not part of the package.
And so then when the
locals even admitted
that this was the case--
>>REGINA: Oh, no,
the Douglas House.
Oh, too bad.
>>HELLIWELL: Yes.
[BOTH CHUCKLING]
So he told me all about
elementals and said,
now I'm going to want you
to write a book in 10 years.
And I said, well, how am I going
to in 10 years what you told me?
And he said, well,
I'll still be there.
[CHUCKLES] And that's what it's
been like now for three decades.
I've written several--
co-written, pardon me--
several books with Lloyd.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So let's start with his
explanation to you of who
the elementals are, because
you have another book that
we're going to talk
about-- another time,
we'll do a whole show on it--
and it's called "So You Think
You're human."
And it's about our hybrid
nature as human beings.
>>HELLIWELL: Yes.
>>REGINA: Right?
So let's talk about this
particular kingdom of beings,
the elementals, and what
their role is on Planet Earth
and how they work with
humanity and would
work with humanity if we even
acknowledged that they're here.
>>HELLIWELL: Uh-huh.
Well, elementals create
all form on the Earth.
So they built the
mountains and the rivers
and the air, the plants.
Everything is built
by elementals.
And we know of them as
leprechauns or elves or gnomes,
but--
>>REGINA: Goblins.
>>HELLIWELL: Goblins.
But people all over the
world talk about them.
In the Maori tradition, they're
called the children of the mist.
In Germany, they're
called kobolds.
So everybody knows about them.
And humans used to see
them, give milk to them,
honey to them in
the morning, you
know, give gifts to
ask them for favors
and to be generous
with their crops.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: But
we've learned not
to see, all except for young
children still see and they
have these imaginary friends.
>>REGINA: So is it Lloyd's
idea to come to you
and help bring back the
awareness to humanity
that their realm exists because
we're just completely ignoring
them?
And not only ignoring them.
I mean, we're literally
ruining their land.
Even my father, when I told
him when he was still alive
about meeting you and
talking about fairy mounds
and such in Ireland, he said,
oh, yeah, we went to dinner one
night and the locals told
us what happened to a guy
in a tractor who ran over
one of their fairy mounds.
Bad ending to the
story, by the way.
So let's talk about
where they live,
what they're doing--
we're doing to their land,
and why it's important we
reestablish relationship.
>>HELLIWELL: Lloyd belongs to
a group of elementals made up
of all different kinds.
He goes all over the world
with these other elementals
and is looking for elementals
that want to partner with humans
again, to be
co-creators, to make
a beautiful and healthy Earth.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And so that is what
his and the group's intention.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And we
used to, as you said,
be in alignment with elementals,
but we have lost this.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And elementals
are desperate to raise
the consciousness again.
Hey, we're here and we're
supposed to be working together.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
I mean, there are things we're
to be learning from them,
but there are also certain
attributes of humanity
that they're
aspiring to as well.
Can you talk about
that a little bit?
>>HELLIWELL: Yes.
We are beings of love and
they're beings of joy.
And they're completely
uncensored and spontaneous.
And when they look at you,
they see the potential
of who you can become.
So they can do
that with an acorn
and make it into
a beautiful tree.
They can see it
with a human being.
And they don't have
a sense of, oh, this
wouldn't be nice to do
this to this person.
Oh--
[CHUCKLING]
- No.
They just say, ooh, the
fast road would be this,
and they go for it.
>>REGINA: Their ethics
are a little different.
And they are like shiny things.
And they're amoral.
And they--
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --like you say,
take the expedient road
if it means, like, stealing
a little bit of gold
here and there or
whatever, right?
>>HELLIWELL: It's true.
It's true.
And so what they're learning
from us is we have free will
and we're beings of
love, or at least,
that's what we're trying
to be, are beings of love.
And so they are learning how
to soften their approach,
be more loving,
and they especially
want to learn free will.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Yeah, because they're run
more by their inherited
patterns over the eons,
from what I understand.
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And I remember
at one point in the book,
I think it was Lloyd
and his goblin friend,
had gone into a watering
hole, into a bar
and were taking
advantage of a human.
And some of the coins
would go missing
when he put his money down
on the table, you know?
[CHUCKLES] And some of the
coins would go missing.
And they were having a good
laugh at the human's expense.
But also, they were drinking a
little off the top of his beer.
So can you talk about--
we can't quite imagine it
because we can't see them.
So if anyone's going
to a bar in Ireland,
they can begin imagining who
they have as unseen company.
>>HELLIWELL: Well,
elementals love Guinness.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>HELLIWELL: Yes.
And they don't see anything
wrong with going to a bar
and having a swig
of the Guinness
before the human gets at it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
Nothing wrong with that at all.
And they make their own.
They don't make
their own Guinness,
but they make their own poitín--
>>REGINA: Yeah, I remember that.
>>HELLIWELL: --which
is like 99% alcohol.
[BOTH CHUCKLING]
>>REGINA: So they
like shiny things?
They like gold?
>>HELLIWELL: They do.
>>REGINA: One thing,
though, they're
Warning us about is by
our becoming disconnected,
not just from them, but
the Earth itself, we're
in danger as a species of losing
something of our own potential
and development.
Can you talk about
that a little bit?
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
They're interested in
helping Gaia, helping
the Earth in her evolution as
well as a conscious planet.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: So as they're also
working with spiritual laws,
the spiritual laws are
the same as natural laws.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: So they're
totally aligned to that.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And humans
have lost their direction.
They've lost their footing with
the spiritual and natural laws.
It's because we're not
grounded any longer.
We move around.
You know, some of us are
on planes all the time.
Or how often have we moved
from where we were even born?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And this
is what first nations,
Indigenous peoples, this is
what they can teach people who,
like you and I, still--
>>REGINA: Move around a lot.
>>HELLIWELL: --move
around a lot.
We need to get grounded again.
And so if people want
to work with elementals,
they have to look at,
are they grounded?
Are they in their
garden working?
Are they hugging trees?
Are they walking on the Earth?
Are they doing forest bathing?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: These are all ways
that humans can become followers
of the natural path and
that elementals would like
them to do things like that
>>REGINA: Among all
these elementals,
where do fairies come in?
>>HELLIWELL: Well, when
people think of fairies--
>>REGINA: Because most people,
they write books about fairies,
and you see little
tinker bells and such.
But--
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --what's that about?
>>HELLIWELL: Well, the little
Tinker Bells are more like--
>>REGINA: Like a sprite or--
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah, they're
more like a sprite,
or they're not quite as--
sorry, fairies, but they're
not quite as developed--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>HELLIWELL: --as the elves or
the leprechauns or the trolls
or the goblins--
>>REGINA: Or the dragons.
>>HELLIWELL: --or the dragons.
So you usually think--
>>REGINA: A little
more ephemeral.
Just--
>>HELLIWELL: Much more.
And you think of flower
fairies, for example.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLIWELL: So that you'd
have a flower fairy that
might be one for a dandelion.
And then there'd be another
breed of flower fairy
that would be doing a bluebell.
>>REGINA: OK, so
it's more ephemeral.
It's lighter.
It's like Tinker Bell.
>>HELLIWELL: It is.
>>REGINA: Not the same level
of maybe conscious development
that the other elementals have?
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah, and
where would Tinker Bell
be without Peter Pan?
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
So I just had to ask that
because some people will
be saying, well where
are fairies in the mix?
So--
>>HELLIWELL: We like them.
>>REGINA: Yes, we do.
They're beautiful.
And so coming back to what
we were talking about,
this disconnection with
the land, the elementals
are also aware that
humanity is about to go
through a really great leap
in consciousness, right?
>>HELLIWELL: Yes, definitely.
>>REGINA: And they would
like to be of assistance
because our leap will have
something to do with their leap
as well.
Can you talk about this?
>>HELLIWELL: Yes.
People often ask me, well,
where are elementals?
If they're Earth
beings, where are they?
And they are in a
little higher frequency
than our third
dimensional reality.
So they're in an astral world.
And sometimes there
are bleed-throughs so
that we see them out of
the corner of our eye
or we hear them, but we don't
see the concrete image as often.
But we are now moving--
human beings, I'm
talking about now.
Along with the Earth, we're
moving to a higher frequency.
>>REGINA: So we should start
becoming more aware of them?
>>HELLIWELL: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And becoming
more aware of angels,
becoming more aware of all
the different astral worlds
that there are.
And so this is an incredible
time in our world.
And I think it's wonderful that
all the people that are alive,
we're all pioneers, kind of
bridging the old world where it
was solid, three
dimensional, and moving
into this astral world.
>>REGINA: So then
going back to Lloyd
and going back to the
leprechauns in particular,
my understanding is
that they had a-- they
have a much longer lifespan.
They marry.
They have families.
They travel.
And they go teach
in other places too.
I mean, they are dispensers
of wisdom in their own right.
What did he tell you a little
bit about their structure
as a clan and people?
And then I want to have that
taken forward into free will.
>>HELLIWELL: Well,
they live in clans.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: So the
gnomes associate
with the gnomes, the leprechauns
with the leprechauns,
and the elves with the elves.
And each clan has its
own particular gift.
Now, Lloyd's group is made up
with beings from all clans.
And this is an unusual thing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLIWELL: Very unusual.
>>REGINA: But they're
trying to teach, I mean--
>>HELLIWELL: They are.
>>REGINA: Yes,
they're ambassadors.
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
And they know that
humans are like this.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: I mean, we
have people marrying people
from all over the world,
intermarriage, interracial
marriages.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And so they
are doing what we're doing
and they're wanting to learn
how to work together as well.
So that's what they're doing.
And this is all part
of this free will
that they are
experimenting with this.
Having never done it,
they're experimenting.
And they don't look so much at,
are we a success at this, as,
are we having fun?
>>REGINA: Yeah
[CHUCKLES] Right, OK.
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
So they're trying out new forms.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And
with humans, when
they're trying out a
new form, something
they've never done before,
they're always thinking,
oh, God, I wasn't
very good at that.
Oh, I should have stuck
with the old thing.
I was really good there.
And they're very self-critical.
Well, elementals
aren't like that.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: They just
think, oh, wow, we
learned this and this
and that was fun.
And yeah, well, keep on trying.
>>REGINA: So do they have
any sense, as humans do,
of living kind of in a realm
between light and dark?
Does that exist for them?
Do these polarities exist?
Or Is it pretty much
the now and what
they're experiencing in the
now and their own people?
>>HELLIWELL: It is the now.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: They
live in the present.
And this is another thing
They have to teach us,
how to live eternally
in the present.
And when the present
becomes boring--
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: --they can change
it just like that because they
do travel in space and time.
They just think
it and they do it.
And that's where
we're going, Regina.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
And they've done
this many times.
When he, for example, brought
his family in to meet you,
his wife and his kids, right?
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: They
just all showed up.
>>HELLIWELL: Yes, that's true.
And he comes even--
I live in Canada
now, and he comes--
>>REGINA: He comes
to see you there?
>>HELLIWELL: He sure does,
for his Earl Gray tea
and his blackberry pancakes.
>>REGINA: Well, apparently, he
followed you here to Boulder.
>>HELLIWELL: He did.
[CHUCKLES]
>>REGINA: Is he still here?
Is he still behind me?
>>HELLIWELL: Well, I did
ask him if he could be good.
>>REGINA: Yeah, thank you.
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah, because
things were running amok
at the beginning and we
had to stabilize a bit.
>>REGINA: Well, yes--
>>HELLIWELL: But
our conversation
is just going in all
sorts of directions.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it is, yeah.
>>HELLIWELL: Isn't it?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLIWELL: That is him.
>>REGINA: That is Lloyd.
OK, so in that--
along that line,
after people read your book,
"A Summer With a Leprechaun,"
then you started taking people
on tours to their territory,
right?
>>HELLIWELL: Yes.
>>REGINA: And another
book came out of that one.
>>HELLIWELL: That
was "Pilgrimage With
the Leprechauns."
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And it was kind of like
my tongue being tied.
Everything was going wrong
from the beginning of the trip.
I thought it was
hysterical reading it.
You didn't think
it was too funny.
Some of the people on the trip
didn't think it was too funny.
But apparently,
Lloyd thought it made
it more interesting
for everyone, right?
>>HELLIWELL: The working title
of that book had been hijacked--
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>HELLIWELL: --by
the leprechauns
because that's how
it felt. I mean,
it started right at
the very beginning
when we got picked
up at the airport.
We've got this beautiful
new bus, spanking new bus.
And one of the people comes
up to the driver and she says,
can I get a-- can I get a
key to go to the washroom?
Can't.
oh, why can't you?
Well, it's locked.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>HELLIWELL: Well, but
could I have the key?
Well, if you'd wanted
a key, you should have
asked before you left Canada.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>HELLIWELL: So here
we were, 30 people,
and no washroom on the bus.
So when we'd come
to a gas station,
there'd be 30 people
lined up or, you know,
on the side of the road, we'd
be headed for the bushes.
And you know, this was just
the whole tour was like that.
>>REGINA: Yeah, people stumbling
and falling and just went
on a walk.
And Lloyd was
having a good time?
I mean, he was amused or?
>>HELLIWELL: He had a message.
>>REGINA: And what
was the message?
>>HELLIWELL: The
message is you are
so stuck on your expectations of
what a trip to meet elementals
is going to be like.
And you think about these
happy little fairies.
And he said, but you've got
to give up your expectations.
You've got to live
in the moment.
And you've got to have
a better sense of humor.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
Well, yeah, so for some,
it came harder than others.
>>HELLIWELL: It did.
It did.
But by the end of the
tour, most of the people
had swung along to thinking
it had been all right.
Most.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it
was an enjoyable--
it was a fun book to read.
So among the elementals-- and
I just brought this up a little
while ago--
are dragons, right?
And this is a theme that has
come and gone in your life.
And right now, at this point
in human consciousness,
when we're trying to transcend
to the next level of awareness
ourselves, it
appears that dragons
are coming back into play
and are important again.
And you're writing
a new book on this,
but we're going to
hopscotch through some of it
in your own history.
What I have here is a
dream you had about Babaji.
>>HELLIWELL: Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: Uh-huh,
so let's go there.
>>HELLIWELL: OK.
It was about three
decades ago, and I had one
of those lucid waking dreams.
And I found myself in a cave.
And I was thousands
of feet up in the air.
And I looked around, didn't
know how I'd gotten there.
And then I saw these pillars
that I thought were pillars,
and they were dragon's legs.
And there was this
boulder, and it was an egg.
And I realized inside
that this was--
that I'd been in
that cave and that,
somehow, I had this
relationship with dragons.
And then speed ahead
to one year ago--
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: --and this
is where Babaji enters.
I meditate regularly,
have done for a long time.
And Babaji is one--
Mahavatar Babaji is one of the
people that I meditate with.
But he's never spoken with me.
Only taps me on the head.
And he's about my
height when I see him.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: Well, in
this particular instance,
he pulls me up into the high
astral, very high astral.
And I'm looking
down on the Earth.
And he turns to the
right and he says,
you've done enough
on elementals.
And I see another planet.
And he says, what about dragons?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And I shoom
right back into my body.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: But then a week
later, he did the very same.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: You've done
enough on elementals.
What about dragons?
And I looked.
This time, I wasn't
so shocked, and I
knew that the
dragon sitting there
was the dragon from the cave
that I had been in three--
>>REGINA: 30 years--
>>HELLIWELL: 30 years ago.
>>REGINA: --30 years ago.
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So did you,
like, with Lloyd,
did you develop a relationship
telepathically with the dragon?
How did your relationship
with that dragon work?
Because I know you
had a couple sightings
of different color types of
dragons around the world.
So let's just talk about
your journey with them
and how you relate to them.
>>HELLIWELL: The
dragon turns out
to be the one that
was in the egg.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>HELLIWELL: And he calls
himself my nest brother.
And so he talks in the book,
"The Dragon's Tale," about why--
how the dragons have
been here for millennia,
hundreds of thousands
of years, really,
to early times in the birth
of the Earth before Atlantis.
And if you read
them, you can see
that there are myths about
dragons all over the world.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And
so he said, we're
interested in catapulting
the consciousness of humanity
and catalyzing our frequency
so that we can rise
in our frequency
because the Earth itself
is going through a birth to
become a conscious planet.
And we are to accompany
the Earth on this journey.
So his name is Jake.
At least, that's my
short form for him.
His full name is
Jaakelousekindvron.
Only it has some grunts
and groans in it.
>>REGINA: We'll go with Jake.
>>HELLIWELL: We'll go with Jake.
And anyway, he is interested
in being a bridge.
Just like the
leprechaun stories have
been a bridge between
elementals and humans,
he is showing us a bridge
between humans and dragon world.
>>REGINA: It's interesting,
many years ago,
I asked my own group
of beings, many--
probably two or
three decades ago,
actually, I asked
them about dragons
because they are so
prominent in our lore,
and people are so
fascinated with them,
although, oftentimes, it
seems more often than not,
in a frightful sort of way.
And I said, are these
beings that actually exist?
He said, no, they
lived upon the land.
In other times when the
frequencies of Earth
were different, they were part
of the beings that lived here.
And they still exist.
But because they live in a
slightly phased off density
from Earth, only some
people can see them.
What you're doing now.
Same thing we talked
about earlier.
So they've always existed there.
>>HELLIWELL: Yes.
>>REGINA: And they
were actually-- they
did exist on the land on Earth.
So what have they told you
about their history with Earth?
>>HELLIWELL: Well, that they use
all the elements, earth, air,
fire and water.
And they said they're even
beings of higher elements
that humans haven't
discovered yet.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah,
that is interesting.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLIWELL: And so they
are able, because of all
those elements, to help
kindle those in human beings.
And they actually work with our
chakra system, the Kundalini
energy to help raise it.
And what they're most
interested right now
is to create the fire in our
hearts, the fire of love,
wisdom, and divine
will in our hearts
so that we can become
co-creators with the Earth.
>>REGINA: So how did
they end up in lore
as basically breathing
the fires of destruction
and igniting fear in
all of the humans?
How did that part of
the story come in?
>>HELLIWELL: There's
two kinds of dragons.
>>REGINA: OK, let's get into it.
>>HELLIWELL: So there's
the Asian dragons.
And in the Asian world,
in China or Japan,
whatever, dragons have
always been revered.
In fact, the emperor
would choose the dragon
as the symbol of his
power and wisdom.
But in the West, when
the dragons were last
seen on the Earth, the
Western civilization
was not as advanced as
the Eastern civilization.
And so they got more
highly evolved dragons
that were over there.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: In the West,
they got more of the--
what the dragon
calls the throwbacks.
And these are ones that,
in the dragon world, when
you have mentally ill,
badly adjusted dragons that
are disabled emotionally,
mentally, spiritually, they
look for planets to
take the throwbacks to
so that they can stabilize, get
themselves emotionally stable.
And so some of
them came to Earth.
And when they came to
Earth, because dragons
live in their own world
on minerals and crystals,
they get the energy from
crystals and minerals.
And so they like
to live in caves.
So the dragons
went to these caves
where there were
minerals and crystals.
But the humans also wanted
the minerals and crystals.
And so that is how they
saw the dragons as enemies.
>>REGINA: Competitive.
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And the dragon
was maybe protecting
their own place, using
whatever means they
had to keep the humans away.
>>HELLIWELL: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: OK, well, that
actually makes sense.
So now in this story,
I have down here
that you had met
dragon in France.
Was that the one
you're speaking about?
>>HELLIWELL: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>HELLIWELL: He goes
through the entire story,
and he is my nest brother.
>>REGINA: OK, so tell us a
little bit about your meeting
with him initially and the
arrangement you have with him
now as your nest brother.
>>HELLIWELL: As my nest brother.
He's like most people associate
with the look of a dragon,
really, only he's indigo.
He's an indigo color.
And he has serpentine-looking
eyes like a snake.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: Gold
with a black center.
Yes, he flies.
He has a hinge joint.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: So he can
crouch down as well.
So he's about 15
feet long in his body
and another 15 feet in tail.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And his
personality, he's young.
They said that I
wouldn't be able to deal
with a mature dragon so
early in meeting them.
And so they had trained him
for, evidently, eons of time,
they had bred and bred and
bred to have somebody who would
be able to talk to a human.
And so he is a
relatively young dragon.
He's proud.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: He's wise.
They receive, in their
nest, in the cave,
they receive the memories
from all their ancestors.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And it's in the
crystals of their own caves
that these memories are imbued.
So when you have a young
dragon who is a hatchling,
he gets all the memories.
So he comes full with
all these memories.
So he has this wisdom.
But at the same time,
being young, he's flexible
and he has a good
sense of humor.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>HELLIWELL: It is good.
>>REGINA: So what is he relaying
to you at this point in time?
What is your job
in this agreement?
>>HELLIWELL: Well,
my job is to talk
about the dragon evolution on
the Earth and with humanity,
and also to talk about
where we're going
and what dragons are going
to be doing with the Earth
and humanity and are doing now.
He talks about the great cosmic
dragon, which are-- they're
highly, highly evolved dragons,
like a Christ figure to us,
and how that being is helping to
crack the shell around the Earth
is now going through all
these volcanoes and hurricanes
and weather disruptions.
But that's all we
see physically.
But there's a shell--
I call it the ring pass knot--
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: --which is an
astral in a causal shell that
also exists around the
Earth, and that has always
protected other civilizations,
star civilizations from us
because we are condemning it.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And it
protects us from them
because we're not ready
yet to know about them.
So that's cracking.
So they are helping
with this cracking.
So the Earth is cracking herself
from inside to birth herself.
And they are helping
from the outside
with what he calls the
permission of the source of all.
This is what he
calls the creator--
>>REGINA: Hmm, interesting.
>>HELLIWELL: --the
source of all.
>>REGINA: So now all kinds of
ideas are spinning into my head
because there are-- when we read
about the dynasties and the use
of the word dragon and some of
the dynasties in the east, we--
it's like the Red Dragon
family or the Green Dragon
family, what does--
was that direct relationship
with a certain-- on a high level
of consciousness, certain type
of dragon in their lineage?
How does that work?
>>HELLIWELL: They have
different lineages.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: So they
have a ruby lineage.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: They
have an emerald.
They have a sapphire blue.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And
they have an indigo.
So they have all these lineages
and they have specialties,
depending on their lineage.
>>REGINA: So give us an idea
of a couple of the specialties.
>>HELLIWELL: OK.
You mentioned earlier
the red dragon.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: So the token
or the symbol for Wales
is the red dragon.
And when I went to Iceland, I
was called there by a dragon.
And I went to Iceland.
And I was looking for stories on
dragons, and there was nothing.
Lots of stories--
>>REGINA: And you thought,
what am I doing here?
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah,
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLIWELL: Lots of
stories about little people.
Everyone thinks they-- you
know about the Icelanders,
but nothing on dragons, until I
was at a cultural kind of museum
site.
And I was speaking to the young
man there who was a historian.
And I said, what's this?
I can't find a thing on dragons.
He pulls out an Icelandic coin.
And he says, look at the crest.
He said, the dragon is
our Eastern guardian.
>>REGINA: Ah.
>>HELLIWELL: And so
it's very interesting.
The Icelandic people hardly
ever would talk about it,
and there it is on their crest.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: So I met that
guardian, the ruby red dragon.
>>REGINA: How did he show up?
What was the situation?
>>HELLIWELL: It was a her.
>>REGINA: Her?
How did she show up?
>>HELLIWELL: Very, very old,
old, old, large, and frosty.
[CHUCKLES]
>>REGINA: Her temperament or
personality was so frosty?
>>HELLIWELL: Her
personality was frosty--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>HELLIWELL: --demanding.
She only came
because she was aware
that I was writing this book.
And so she received instruction
from the source of all
that she had to cooperate.
But she--
>>REGINA: She was
the one you were sent
to meet with, though, right?
>>HELLIWELL: Yes, she was.
She was the one who--
>>REGINA: She was
just reluctant?
>>HELLIWELL: Yes, she was
reluctant because of that,
because humans are
like rats to her.
>>REGINA: Rats?
>>HELLIWELL: Mm.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's all
from your perspective.
>>HELLIWELL: It is
And if you're thousands and
thousands and thousands of years
old, maybe you
would feel the same.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLIWELL: So it turns out she
is the same ruby red dragon that
is the dragon of--
red dragon of Wales.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>HELLIWELL: And she
used to live there,
and then moved to
Iceland because she
wanted to be in the warmth
of the volcanoes and the lava
fields.
>>REGINA: And--
>>HELLIWELL: They
love the warmth.
>>REGINA: And something
about new land too,
wasn't there something
about Iceland as growing?
There's still a
freshness and newness?
>>HELLIWELL: Yes.
>>REGINA: And as
I recall from what
I read, something
about that as well, she
wanted to be part
of the formation
and development of this land?
>>HELLIWELL: It's true.
It is the newest
land on the Earth--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLIWELL: --is being
birthed in Iceland.
>>REGINA: So she is the
red dragon of Wales?
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Which, of course,
you see all over Wales.
>>HELLIWELL: Uh-huh.
>>REGINA: So when she
spoke with you, when
she communicated
with you, what was it
she was supposed to tell you?
Why did you go there?
>>HELLIWELL: She wanted
to talk about the fact
that she was a red
dragon of Wales.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: [CHUCKLES]
Because she also is proud.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLIWELL: And
that she basically
wanted to be left alone,
but that she wanted
it to be known that
she was in Iceland
and she had been on the
Earth for eons of time.
And I asked her, couldn't you
go back to the dragon world?
Or would that be
difficult for you?
And she said, I could still go,
but it would be very difficult
because it's at such
a high frequency,
and I have been in this low
frequency of Earth for so long.
>>REGINA: Well, that would
make her frosty and grumpy.
>>HELLIWELL: Oh, I think so too.
[BOTH CHUCKLING]
>>REGINA: Hanging out
with the riff raff
as we try to develop here.
>>HELLIWELL: The rats.
[BOTH CHUCKLING]
>>REGINA: Well, so is
this something that's
going to be a continuing
relationship now because
of your nest brother
and you, that they'll
continue to dialogue with
you and send messages
through you to what we humans
can do to help ourselves go
through this great transition
that Earth is going through,
and we must, in order to
stay with Earth ourselves?
>>HELLIWELL: I'm not sure.
>>REGINA: Mm.
>>HELLIWELL: I feel
complete in the book.
I feel complete with
the transmission
that I have honored the request.
I feel a very close connection
with my nest brother Jake.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: But it was said
when I had that vision with
Babaji--
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: --I only
gave you part of it.
But the second part of it was--
he turned and he said, what
about the world of dragons?
And I said, yes,
I saw the dragon.
And then I turned to the
left and I saw the world
for merpeople.
>>REGINA: Oh, that's good.
>>HELLIWELL:
Mermaids and mermen.
>>REGINA: So he sent
you on to the merpeople?
>>HELLIWELL: He hasn't yet.
He has not yet.
But I have this
intuition that this
may be what I need
to do next, is
create another bridge between
the merpeople and humans
because--
>>REGINA: It makes sense.
Now you're talking about the
water element and all the wisdom
that is in our oceans,
permeates our oceans
as we continue to do whatever
we're doing to our oceans.
OK, well, that's exciting.
So that's coming up next.
>>HELLIWELL: Maybe.
>>REGINA: Maybe.
Maybe that's coming up--
>>HELLIWELL: Living
in the present.
>>REGINA: Living in the present,
which Lloyd has taught you well.
And in between all of this,
I mentioned it very briefly
earlier, and we'll
just touch on it now
because I want to do
a whole show on it,
you wrote another book called--
titled "So You
Think You're Human."
>>HELLIWELL: Yes.
That was the subtitle.
The first word was hybrids.
>>REGINA: "HYBRIDS, So You
Think You're Human," right.
>>HELLIWELL: [CHUCKLES]
>>REGINA: And so
how did you come
to see human beings
as being reflections
of some of these other worlds,
like hybridized and stamped,
somehow imbued with
characteristics
from these other worlds?
Where did you first
start noticing that.
>>HELLIWELL: Well, I am a
psychotherapist by training.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: So I had
a therapy practice,
and we specialized in
spiritual transformation.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLIWELL: And I
started to realize
that some of the people who
came to me were not fully human.
And because I'd already
had my experience
with Lloyd and the
elementals, I, at first,
started to see
elemental hybrids.
And I realized there were
certain common characteristics
that they had.
And I didn't have a card
saying, specializing
in elemental hybrids
or anything like that.
So anyway, having
discovered that,
I became more alert to looking
at other people more deeply.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: And so I was in
Germany teaching a course,
and I was teaching
a course on hybrids.
And some of the
people there said,
you've got to write a book,
and we have the title for you.
It's called "HYBRID, So
You Think You're Human."
[BOTH CHUCKLING]
>>REGINA: So that's
how that came about?
>>HELLIWELL: That's how
the book got written.
And so when I started
really investigating,
I found 22 kinds of
hybrids that, I think,
have a probability of
existing on the Earth
and moving into human evolution.
>>REGINA: So did you notice
in this that there were--
did it reflect the elemental
kingdom, for example,
if you're talking about
elemental hybrids,
in terms of the other people
that they spent time with,
or did you notice a lot
more mixing than would
happen in the elemental world?
I mean, might you have
noticed that an elf might
be married to a leprechaun
hybrid in this world?
Was there a lot more mixing?
>>HELLIWELL: A lot.
And this was one of the reasons
that elementals would have--
they would have asked for the
overseeing elementals that
oversee their evolution
and the ones that
oversee our evolution, the
human evolution, for permission
to enter human evolution,
to learn free will.
And then here they can mix.
I could name names, but that
would get us into trouble.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
don't name names.
You do in the book.
You name names in the book about
when you see certain people,
you'll be able to-- you can
tell which of the hybrid groups
they come from.
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so let's just,
for one moment,
and then we're going
to move on to what
you do the rest of the time
because you teach seriously
in the world of transformation.
You've been doing
this for decades.
You have your own school.
We'll talk about
that at the very end.
But let's just talk
about elves for a moment
just because they pop
up in so many films.
And people are so
intrigued with elves,
they even have their ears, for
example, surgically changed
to mimic elf ears and such.
So there's a big
fascination with elves.
This is one of 22.
Just give us a tease.
We'll come back and
do a whole show on it.
>>HELLIWELL: OK, a tease.
Well, there's two
kinds of elves.
There's the forest elves
and the royal elves.
The royal elves are
meant to command.
And there are a
lot of royal elves
that are in the movie industry.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL:
They're charismatic.
They're usually
tall and slender.
And you cannot resist them.
>>REGINA: You can't
take your eyes off them?
>>HELLIWELL: You cannot
take your eyes off them.
They are so charismatic.
And you just want to--
you want them to like you.
You want to do
something for them.
So those are your royal elves.
Then there are the forest elves.
Now they are more the
chameleon, the ones
that fit into the background.
They may also be in
the movie industry,
but they wouldn't want to be--
they might go in disguises
a lot in the movie industry
because they wouldn't care
about looking beautiful.
But they want to try on
various personalities
because in the
elemental world, you can
change your clothes like that.
You can--
>>REGINA: Speed of thought.
>>HELLIWELL: Absolutely.
And so they get bored here.
And one of the problems
when elementals
enter into hybrid lives as a
human, they find it very boring.
>>REGINA: So they turn to a lot
of things that can take them
down a path that's destructive
>>HELLIWELL: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Addictions?
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah, they can.
>>REGINA: Royal elves tend
to have addiction patterns--
>>HELLIWELL: Elementals purely--
>>REGINA: Elementals?
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah,
because they're bored.
>>REGINA: They're bored.
>>HELLIWELL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: I think a lot of
people listening to this
can get that.
So just really
briefly, let's talk
about your school
of transformation
and a little bit else of
what you're doing now.
Are you still going on tours?
We'll keep an eye out for the
other book on the merpeople
if that does happen.
So what are you doing right now?
>>HELLIWELL: I still
teach, go on tours.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLIWELL: Our institute
is called the International
Institute for Transformation.
We are devoted to
spiritual transformation,
to helping people on their
path to consciousness,
whatever that is.
And so we're completely
open to all religions.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Did you ever think
that elementals
were going to be part of that?
>>HELLIWELL: Never.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
I mean, I really--
as a psychotherapist and also,
I was a management consultant
working for IBM and banks
for 30 years as well.
So I've had these
different sides.
And so I never knew.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That's what I like about
you, no one would suspect it.
Tanis, it's been so fun to
finally meet you in the flesh
and have you here.
And we'll have you
come back, and we'll
look at these 22 hybrid types
so people in our audience
can try to identify what they
or their loved ones might be.
It's really fun.
>>HELLIWELL: They're probably
wondering what we are.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, maybe we'll talk
about in that show.
>>HELLIWELL: Maybe.
[BOTH CHUCKLING]
>>REGINA: Thank
you so much, Tanis.
>>HELLIWELL: It's been a treat.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES] To learn
more about the elemental world,
you can start by
reading Tanis's book,
"A Summer With a Leprechaun."
And then you can go on
to the dragon's story.
You can also go to
tanishelliwell.com
to learn more about her
ongoing workshops and tours
to the land of the elementals.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]